# Google Data Analytics Capstone

## Bellabeat Fitness Tracking App Analysis

This analysis is a Capstone project from the [Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/learn/google-data-analytics-capstone/supplement/ZsmDD/case-study-2-how-can-a-wellness-company-play-it-smart) on Coursera.

### Tools:
R for Data Cleaning, Data Transformation, Data Visualisation and Data Analysis

###  Data Set:
The data set is available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit).


## Summary 

Bellabeat is  a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. Bellabeat is a successful small company, but they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. Urška Sršen, cofounder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat, believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company.

Our goal is to analyze FitBit Fitness Tracker App data to gain insights into how consumers are using the FitBit app and discover trends and insights for Bellabeat marketing team.

## Step 1: Ask

**Business Objectives:**

- What are the trends identified?
- How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
- How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?

## Step 2: Prepare 

**2.1 Dataset Information:**

- The data set is available on [Kaggle: FitBit Fitness Tracker Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit).
- 30 eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for daily activity,steps,  heart rate, and sleep monitoring.
- The dataset is generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk over 31 days between 03.12.2016 - 05.12.2016

**2.2 Data Limitations:**

**No Metadata Provided:** Information such as location, lifestyle, weather, temperature, humidity etc. would provide a deeper context to the data obtained.

**Missing Demographics:** Key demographics data such as gender, age, were not identified. This is a crucial missing information sine Bellabeat creates women-centric products. Insights obtained may not reflect the differences in physiology and activity patterns between different demographic groups. However, we understand such information is under a strict privacy policy.

**Small Sample Size:** Sample size of 30 female FitBit users is quite small and not ideal.

**Data Collection Period:** 31 days of data is limited in providing high-level recommendations. Seasonal trends impacts heavily on user activity and lifestyle choices. E.g. User's excercise habits differ between summer and winter. Also, This data was collected from  2016. Users' daily activity, fitness and sleeping habits, diet and food consumption may have changed since then.

**2.3 Data Intergrity**

Is Data **ROCCC**? - **R**eliable, **O**riginal, **C**omprehensive, **C**urrent, and **C**ited

- Reliable - LOW - Not reliable as it only has 30 respondents
- Original - LOW - Third party provider (Amazon Mechanical Turk)
- Comprehensive - MED - Parameters match most of Bellabeat's products' parameters
- Current - LOW - Data is over 5 years old and is not relevant
- Cited - LOW - Data collected from third party, hence unknown


## Process

Data processing, analysis and visualization will all be done in R Programming with R Studio.

3.1 Install packages and open libraries 

```r
library(tidyverse)
library(ggpubr)
library(lubridate)
library(skimr)
library(janitor)
library(viridis)
library(scales)
library(waffle)
library(ggrepel)
library(plotly)
library(RColorBrewer)
```
## Analyze 
## Share
